<h3>Week 4 Blog</h3>

<h4> Reading </h4>
<p><a href=https://academic.oup.com/jah/article/101/1/122/748466>Blevins’ Space, Nation, and the Triumph of Region: A View of the World from Houston</a> is a deep-dive examining the Houston Daily Post’s content, looking at both explicit and implicit forms of information, to understand the construction of space, and consequently, the collective understanding of place. It was really fascinating to see what can be uncovered when utilizing both digital resources and the historian’s critical eye. The piece made a number of important arguments that spoke to me. </p>

<p>One of those arguments was grounded in Benedict Anderson’s concept of the “imagined community”. This isn’t a concept that is unfamiliar to me, as it has been referenced in many of my communications classes. But I did have an interesting thought. In <a href="https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/updating-remain-same">Wendy Chun’s “Habitual New Media, or Updating to Remain (Close to) the Same”</a>, Chun details the shift from “imagined communities” to the “imagined we”, to show how digital networks, by way of platform media, have portrayed a transformation of media to increasingly personalized; she says, “New media are N(YOU) media; new media are a function of you.” The way I see it, Chun elevates this argument, updating it slightly, not in that it discredits Anderson's work but acts as an expansion of the imagined community. Since our media is so increasingly personalized now, with our feeds leading us to news articles it believes we want to see, it's interesting to think about how the algorithms that dominate our social platforms shape our understandings of space as well, considering information is so readily available to us about the realities of place and space. I wonder how a future study, that seeks to understand how media influences our perceptions of space, would take place in the future, and what are all the things it would have to take into account considering the broader definition of the word 'media'.</p>

<p>More than that, I was interested to learn about Blevin's analysis techniques, which involves a hybridized analysis style, as portrayed when he discusses “sampled content analysis, or a combination of close reading, digital analysis, and statistical sampling.” Above all, I'm learning in this course that no; a computer cannot do a historian's job, but it can be a historian's companion, his/her best tool, to further advance their findings and yield more significant results.</p>

<h4>Exercises</h4>

<p>The first exercise, involving regular expressions, looked very simple from afar, but I found myself getting frustrated when my results wouldn't mirror those in the video guides provided in the workbook. The regular expressions task was really an eye into what goes on when I type Ctrl+F. I imagine those are the commands that are assigned to the programs I use on a daily basis, but I have never given them a second thought. It was interesting to see what the possibilities are with the Regex website. I detailed my shortcomings in my fail log.</p>

<p>The second exercise involved Open Refine software, which was really very user-friendly in my opinion. Navigating it was easy enough, and I was fascinated to see how the program allows intense refinement of dense files like the ones that we explored, to make text that was unintelligible at first actually make sense. Seeing the difference between the text file I started off with in exercise 1 and the CSV file I ended up with by the end of the second exercise was really day and night. </p>

<h4>For next week</h4>
<p>This week, I feel like I may have gotten a little lost, not as fluent as I initially felt like I was getting. I think I need to revisit the concepts from this week, and explore the optional exercises a little bit more, to push myself further. I hope next week is a little better.</p>
