The readings this week were primarily to do with digital humanities scholars that have a *whole hearted openness* to open access research. They allowed me to understand the ways technology have merged with history to enrich the discipline. [Ian Milligan's discussion](https://ianmilligan.ca/2014/01/27/why-canadas-open-data-initiative-matters-to-historians/) was most interesting to me because the combination of visual and textual concepts clarified what the process looks like from start to finish, and how a simple data set could answer a variety of questions with the input of the digital historian. 

After I did the readings, I proceeded to do the exercises. 

The first exercise concerned writing in markdown. Now, my only knowledge of any form of code is some HTML because at my job, I am tasked with coding a number of articles into the system so that they can be published and read by the public. I know from my job that one slight error could mess up the finished text entirely. 
It doesn't feel that dramatic with markdown; it's easier to locate where I went wrong, and how to go about fixing it. It took me a while to stop trying to indicate bold with < b > </ b > though it does actually work to bold text - but I discovered using **two astericks** to bold text is even easier. 
I think I will be referring to the markdown cheatsheet alot throughout this course but I'm really aiming to finish this course with a comprehensive understanding of this new language, so that I can work with more ease and less concerned about whether my code is right or wrong. 

Entering DHBox initially seemed threatening, but it's really very easy when following the instructions provided in the workbook. Any time I faced an issue, I checked to see where I fell off the instructions, or what glitches my Mac was encountering. What especially interested me was DHBox suggesting a correction when my code didn't translate to anything. It felt sort of empowering when I got things to work, entering a command made something else happen, and everything fit together; the order in which I wrote those commands mattered, but it almost felt like a puzzle and the pieces were fitting into place. Converting files with the command line was also as simple as following instructions, although I'm sure I will be revisiting the workbook to become better acquainted with the process. 

I downloaded the Slack plugin on my Macbook and that really helped ensure I was being updated every step of the way with my work. Slack being just another tab in the plethora that I already had open wasn't going to do. The desktop application made that a lot easier. I like that I get desktop notifications when I receive a message, however, I **do need to make more of an effort to collaborate with my classmates** instead of just reading all of the messages and not being an active participant. 

GitHub is like no application I've downloaded before, I think if I was to show my work to a friend who has no knowledge of this subject they would think it was difficult to use, not user-friendly at all. But I've come to understand that it really is for a certain type of user, and that the user needs to acquaint themselves with the platform and learn to use it to advance their work in the most efficient way possible. I'm excited about where we'll go next. 
